# 1A

## Computer functions:

Input, Processing, Output

## Input components:

Keyboards, Microphones, Webcams, Scanners, External interfaces(from usb ports/ firewall), Storage devices(ssd/ cd/ dvd)

CPU: Central Processing Unit

Executes instructions from computer programs. Eg. Operating system.

Contains the Arithmetic and Logic Unit (ALU) and Control Unit.

## Output components:

Monitors, printers storage devices, network cards, speakers, external interfaces

___

RAM: Random Access Memory

Volatile storage 

The CPU can only access data/code in RAM 

Virtual Memory

Where less used data/code is placed

Data that is needed by the CPU here will be moved to the RAM before being used.

ROM: Read Only Memory

Non-volatile memory

eg. Hard disks, CDs, DVDs, USB flash drives, SSD

Used to store Document and multimedia files that are not in use.

___

## PC hardware:

- Motherboard

- Hard drive

- RAM

- BIOS/ CMOS

## Motherboard:

- PCI bus expansion slots
  
  - Used to add functionality to a PC by adding expansion cards that have a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) connector.

- PCI-express expansion slots
  
  - PCI but for high-performance expansion cards, such as graphics cards and disk controllers.

- CPU socket
  
  - CPU installed here

- RAM slots
  
  - Slots for installing RAM on the motherboard.

- Main power connector
  
  - The connector is where the motherboard receives power from the system power supply.

- Chipset
- 
  - There are two chips, the Northbridge and Southbridge. The chips control data transfer between memory.

- Heat sinks
  
  - The heat sink sits atop the CPU to prevent overheating.

- SATA connectors
  
  - Used for connecting hard drives and CD/DVD drives that use the Serial Advanced Technology Attachment (SATA) specification. 

- IDE connectors
  
  - Connects the Integrated Drive Electronics (IDE) and ROM devices.

___

## Computer bus fundamentals:

- Bus
  
  - A collection of wires carrying signals (data, address, or control) from one place to another on the computer
Buses go between the (CPU and RAM), (CPU and disk drives), (CPU and expansion slots)

- Data bus
  
  - Used to carry digital signals from the RAM to the CPU. Bidirectional
- 
  - The data bus carries data to be stored

- Address bus
  
  - Used to carry address signals from the CPU to RAM. Unidirectional
  
  - The address bus carries the location to where the data should be stored.

- Control bus
  
  - Used to carry control signals, for example, read or write, from CPU to RAM.

___

## Polling and Interrupting:

They are ways to handle the events generated by the devices.
When a CPU is polling, it checks on Input/ Output (I/O) at regular intervals.

When a CPU is interrupting, the I/O device interrupts the CPU and signals that it requires the CPU's services.

___

## Storages:

### Hard drives:

- Primary ROM storage component. 
- Has mechanical components that consist of magnetic disks called "platters" that store data in magnetic pulses.

Stores your OS

### Solid State Drives (SSD):

- Used in places of hard drives

- No moving parts and faster access times

- More reliable, and more durable.

- More expensive, but smaller as well.

- Often used in mobile devices.

### Random Access Memory (RAM):

- No moving parts.

- Much faster than ROM drives.

- In general, more RAM = Faster computer

___

## BIOS/ CMOS basics:

- BIOS
  - Basic Input Output System:

A set of instructions located in a chip on the motherboard tells the CPU to perform certain tasks when power is first applied to the computer.

One of those instructions is to perform the Power On Self Test (POST)

Computer boot:

1. Power applied to the motherboard

2. CPU starts

3. CPU carries out BIOS startup POST

POST

1. boots devices as per BIOS configuration

2. OS is loaded into the RAM

3. OS services are launched

- CMOS
   - Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor:

When a computer boots, the BIOS program offers a chance to run the Setup utility in order to configure hardware components. This is stored in the CMOS

___

## The fundamentals of Network Communication:

A computer network consists of two or more computers connected by some kind of transmission medium (Through cable or airwaves)

In order to access the internet, a computer has to be able to connect to a network.

- NIC
  - Network Interface Card:

  - To create and mediate the connections between a device and a network medium. Contains the MAC address unique to each device.

- SSID
  - Service Set Identifier

___

## Types of computers:

Embedded computers. Eg. GPS, ATM

Personal computers. Eg. Your bloody desktop

Servers and enterprise systems. Eg. Server setups in data centers

Supercomputers and Grid computers. Eg. The shit that laboratories use to calculate their shit

"Cloud computing". Eg. Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, AWS