# 3

## kilostuffs:

> In data communications, a kilobit is one thousand bits.
>
> Kilobits - kbps
>
> Kilobytes - KBps
>
> 1kb/s = 1000 bits per second
>
> 1KB/s = 1024 bytes per second

___

## Network Components:

### Hardware Components:

- Network Interface Card
  
  - (NIC)
  
  - An add-on card plugged into a motherboard expansion slot that provides a connection between the computer and the network.

- Network Medium
  
  - A cable that plugs into the NIC and makes the connection between a computer and the rest of the network. 
  
  - Can also be the air (wireless)

- Interconnecting device
  
  - Allow two or more computers to communicate on the network without having to be connected directly to one another.

### Software Components:

#### Network clients and servers:

- Network clients software
  
  - Requests information stored on another network computer or device 
  
  - ( eg. Chrome web browser)

- Network server software
  
  - Allows a computer to share its resources 
  
  - (eg. Apache web server, Heroku, Microsoft Azure)

- Protocol
  
  - Defines the rules and formats a computer must use when sending information across the network 
  
  - ( eg. TCP/ IP Protocol stack)

- NIC Driver
  - Receives data from protocols and forwards this data to the physical NIC.
  
___

## Layers of the Network Communication Process:

| Step          | Description                   | Layer             |
| ------------- | ----------------------------- | ----------------- |
| 1             | An application tries to access a network resource by sending a message | User application |
| 2             | Client software detects the attempt to access the network and passes the message on to the network protocol | Network software |
| 3             | The protocol packages the message in a format suitable for the network and sends it to the NIC driver. | Network protocol |
| 4             | The NIC driver sends the data in the request to the NIC card, which converts it into the necessary signals to be transmitted across the network medium. | Network interface |

___

## How computers communicate on a LAN:

> TCP/ IP is the most common protocol (Language)

TCP/ IP uses 2 addresses to identify devices:

1. Logical address (IP address)

2. Physical address (Mac address)

> The computer uses the address to send the data to the correct device on the network.

___

## LAN, Internetworks, MAN, WAN:

- Local Area Network (LAN)
  
  - Small network, limited to a single collection of machines and connected by one or more interconnecting devices in a small geographic area.

- Internetwork
  
  - Is a networked collection of LANs tied together by devices such as routers.

- Metropolitan area network (MAN)
  
  - Uses WAN technologies to interconnect LANs in a specific geographic region such as a county or city.

- Wide area network (WAN)
  
  - Uses the services of third-party communication providers to carry network traffic from one location to another.

___

## Internet, Intranet, Extranet:

- Internet
  
  - A worldwide public internetwork.

- Intranet
  
  - A private internetwork in which devices and servers are only available to those users connected to the internal network.

- Extranet
  
  - Allows limited and controlled access to internal resources by outside users.

___

## Packet frames:

1. Data transferred are done in packets. Packets carry data across the internet.

2. Packets are chunks of data with a source and destination IP address added to it.

3. Frames are packets with source and destination MAC address addresses added to it.

4. Computers transfer information across networks in short bursts of about 1500 bytes of data.

___

### Reasons why data is transferred like this:

1. Pause between bursts allows other computers to transfer data during pauses.

2. Allows the receiving computer to process received data.

3. Allows the receiving computer to receive other data from other computers at the same time.

4. Gives the sending computer an opportunity to receive data from other computers and perform other processing tasks.

5. If an error occurs during the transmission of a large file, only the chunks of data involved in the error have to be sent again.

___

## Clients and servers:

- Client
  
  - Can be a workstation running a client OS or it can refer to the network software on a computer that requests network resources from a server.

### The word “client” is usually used in these three contexts:

1. Client operating system
   - The OS installed on a computer

2. Client computer
   - Primary role is to run user applications and access network resources.

3. Client software
   - Software that requests network resources from server software on another computer.

> A computer becomes a server when software is installed on it that provides a network service to client computers.

### The term “server: is also used in three contexts:

1. Server operating system
   - OS installed on a computer designed to share network resources and provide other network services.

2. Server computer
   - A computer’s primary role in the network resources and services.

3. Server software
   - Responds to requests for network resources from client software.